# Exercise Tracking Shirt System
The Exercise Tracking Shirt System is a system that automatically detects tracks a user's exercises in real time using a compression shirt with embedded sensors and a machine learning model running on a client device. The exercise tracking shirt contains a Raspberry Pi Pico 2 W (running MicroPython) that continuously polls various sensors (embedded in the shirt) and passes the sensor data to a client device over a USB connection. The client device buffers the real-time sensor data and uses a sliding window to feed the time series sensor data into a 1D CNN model to determine the exercise movement that the user is performing. The shirt is capable of detecting push-ups, pull-ups, bicep-curls, shoulder-presses, and lateral-raises exercises, and upward/downward movements for each exercise. The predicted exercise movement is sent to the Pico from the client, and the Pico determines if a new exercise repetition has been executed given this data. The exercise shirt alerts the user of a new exercise and repetition via an LED screen that displays the name of the new exercise (if the first rep has been detected) and the current number of reps. A vibrating motor attached to the user's wrist is also used to alert the user of a new repetition.

This repository contains all of the code and resources necessary to train and run the Exercise Tracking Shirt System. All scripts in the "Pico" folder must be loaded into the Pico to successfully run the main program. To train the machine learning model, the client_train.py script should be used to acquire exercise sensor data. This script allows the user to input the name of the exercise they are about to perform and the number of reps being performed. The script alerts the user when a new exercise movement begins (and a new repetition) using audible beeps. Once data has been collected, the user can use the train.py script to train a 1D CNN model and evaluate the model's performance. Once the model has been saved, the client.py script can be used to allow the Exercise Tracking Shirt System to track user exercises in real time.